# Cookielab's TypeScript Configuration

This package contains the TypeScript configuration for our code style.

The code style aims to be as astrict and defensive as possible to avoid bugs & unwanted side-effects and to improve code readability.

The ruleset is inspired by the Tiger Style coding principles and pretty much boils down to the following core principles:

1. Security
   1. A.k.a. eing proactive about bugs instead of reactive
2. Performance
3. Developer Experience
   1. Explicit over implicit code
   2. Consistent code style

## Updating TypeScript & Configuration Versions

### TypeScript `>=6.0.0` & Configuration `>=0.1.0`

The following options were deprecated by TypeScript and will not be part of the configuration going forward:

1. `downlevelIteration`
2. `outFile`
3. `alwaysStrict`
4. `baseUrl`
5. `esModuleInterop`
6. `allowSyntheticDefaultImport`

In case your `@types/*` packages are not recognized by the TypeScript compiler, they will have to be added into your `tsconfig.json`. TypeScript has stopped automatically loading every `@types/*` package [starting with version 6.0.0](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-6-0.html#types-now-defaults-to-). A simple example of registering `@types/node` would be:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "types": ["node"]
  }
}
```

## Versioning

For TypeScript versions `<6.0.0`, the configuration versions of `0.0.X` are recommended. Starting with `0.1.0`, many `compilerOptions` were removed with the major release and will not be maintained in the future versions of the configuration.

The `0.0.X` configuration versions will still be maintained to provide compatibility for older TypeScript versions.

## Documentation

As the configuration only handles `compilerOptions`, the reasoning behind each setting can be found in [compilerOptions](./src/compilerOptions.ts).

## Installation

First add the package as a development dependency using your package manager of choice.

```bash
pnpm add -D -E @cookielab/typescript-config
```

Then extend your `tsconfig.json` using the `extends` directive:

```json
{
  "extends": "@cookielab/typescript-config"
}
```

Do not forget to add `includes` or other necessary settings for your project - this configuration handles only the compiler options. The full configuration file may look something like this:

```json
{
  "extends": "@cookielab/typescript-config",
  "includes": ["src/", "test/"]
}
```

## Development

The project uses an autogenerated Zod schema from schemastore.org ([https://json.schemastore.org/tsconfig](https://json.schemastore.org/tsconfig)). However, as Zod does not support generating schemas directly from JSON Schema, we use two convertors in between.

Firstly, the JSON schema in [tsconfig.schema.json](./src/tsconfig.schema.json) is converted into TypeScript types.

Afterward, the TypeScript types are then converted into a Zod schema. See [the generated output](./src/generated/configuration.ts) for more details. Surprisingly enough, even the comments from the JSON Schema are preserved in the final Zod schema.

To generate a newer version of the configuration follow these steps:

```bash
pnpm schema:update # Downloads the latest version from schemastore.org into ./src/tsconfig.schema.json
pnpm schema:generate # Generates the Zod schema from ./src/tsconfig.schema.json
```

The project is type checked with the output configuration. To get an up-to-date results, build the project first

```bash
pnpm build
pnpm types
```
